---

# required metadata
title: "DeployR Repository Manager Help - DeployR 8.x "
description: "Working with Directories in the DeployR Repository Manager"
keywords: ""
author: "j-martens"
ms.author: "jmartens"
manager: "cgronlun"
ms.date: "11/10/2017"
ms.topic: "article"
ms.prod: "mlserver"

# optional metadata
#ROBOTS: ""
#audience: ""
#ms.devlang: ""
#ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: "machine-learning"
#ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
#ms.technology: ""
#ms.custom: ""

---

# Working with Directories

The DeployR repository files are organized into directories. In the Repository Manager, you can see the directories storing the files to which you have access on the left side of the **Files** tab. There are two kinds of directories – those containing files you own and those containing the files to which you have access rights.

## Directories for My Files

The directories under **My Files** are your private user directories. They contain the files you own solely or jointly with others. You can upload files to these directories, manage the files they contain, and even manage the directories themselves. The first time you open the Repository Manager, you will only see one user directory called **root**. The **root** directory is the default directory and is privately owned by you.

The following directory management tasks are possible for your user directories in the Repository Manager:

- [Create](deployr-repository-manager-directories.md#creating-directories) a new user directory

- [Rename](deployr-repository-manager-directories.md#renaming-directories) a user directory

- [Delete](deployr-repository-manager-directories.md#deleting-directories) a user directory

- [Move](../deployr/deployr-repository-manager-files.md#moving-files) files across user directories

- [Copy](../deployr/deployr-repository-manager-files.md#copying-files) files into another user directory

- [Delete](../deployr/deployr-repository-manager-files.md#deleting-files) files from user directories

## Directories for Other Files

Under **Other Files** are several system-managed virtual directories containing those repository files you do not own but that have been made [accessible](../deployr/deployr-repository-manager-files.md#about-file-properties) to you by their owners. Since the files under **Other Files** belong to other users, you cannot copy, move, modify, or delete these files.  However, you can:

- Integrate these files within your DeployR-enabled applications

- Explore interesting results that were generated by others such as binary R objects, data and graphics files

The following virtual directories are available under **Other Files**:

- **Restricted**: Files made accessible to those users assigned specific roles using the **Restricted** access right.

- **Shared**: Files made accessible to all authenticated users using the **Shared** access right.

- **Public**: Files made accessible to anyone, including anonymous users, using the **Public** access right.


>[Access rights](../deployr/deployr-repository-manager-files.md#about-file-properties) are one of the [file properties](../deployr/deployr-repository-manager-files.md#about-file-properties) you can set for the files you own.

## Creating Directories

To help you organize your files into logical groups for use across projects, applications, and even customers, you can create your own custom user directories.

>You cannot create any directories under **Other Files**.

**To create a directory:**

1. In the **Files** tab of the Repository Manager, click on the **Actions** menu dropdown.

2. From the menus, choose **New Directory**. The **New Directory** dialog appears.

3. In the **New Directory** dialog, enter the name for the new directory. Learn about [Directory Naming: Dos and Don'ts](deployr-repository-manager-directories.md#directory-naming-dos-and-don-ts).

4. Click **Create**. The new user directory appears under **My Files**.

## Deleting Directories

When you no longer need one of your user directories and the files it contains, you can delete it. If you want to keep some of those files, first move the files into another user directory.

>You cannot delete the root directory or any system directories under **Other Files**.

**To delete a directory:**

1. Go to the **Files** tab.

2. Select the user directory under **My Files** that you want to delete.

3. Click on the **Actions** menu dropdown and choose **Delete Directory**. The **Delete Directory** dialog appears.

4. In the **Delete Directory** dialog, confirm you want to delete the directory and all of its files by clicking **Delete**. The dialog closes and the directory no longer appears in the tree. Learn more about [deleting files](../deployr/deployr-repository-manager-files.md#deleting-files).

## Renaming Directories

To help you organize your files, you can rename any of the directories under My Files except root. You must use a unique name for the directory. Learn about [Directory Naming: Dos and Don'ts](#directory-naming-dos-and-don-ts).

>You cannot change the directory of files you co-own with other users. Files for which you are the sole owner can be moved to another directory; however, files owned by multiple users must remain under the original directory for as long as there are multiple owners. 
>
>Nor can you rename the root or any directories under Other Files.

To rename a directory:

1.  In the **Files** tab of the Repository Manager, select the directory you want to rename.
2.  Click on the **Actions** menu dropdown and choose **Rename Directory**. The **Rename Directory** dialog appears.
3.  In the **Rename Directory** dialog, enter the new name for the directory. [Directory Naming: Dos and Don'ts](#directory-naming-dos-and-don-ts).
4.  Click **Rename** to apply the change.

<a name="directory-naming-dos-and-don-ts"></a>
## Directory Naming: Dos and Don'ts

**Dos**

1. Do choose from alphanumeric and special characters when naming your user directories.

2. Do understand that directory names are case-sensitive. You may create a user directory named "hello_world" and another named "Hello_World".

3. Do use spaces if desired.

**Don'ts**

1. Don't use these special characters when naming your directories : " * ? \ / . < >

2. Don't use a name that is already in use.

3. Don't use any of the following reserved names (regardless of case), as they are not permitted:
  - anonymous
  - archived
  - custom
  - deployr
  - granted
  - metadata
  - private
  - public
  - published
  - repository
  - restricted
  - root
  - shared
